# Problem making environment

> This is my effort to optimize the process of making programming problems for practicing data structures and algorithms.

## What is this repo containing?

This repo is containing a few files for you to get ready and start to code. Keep in mind that I built this whole setup from my personal experience. Therefore if you find something that make you feel uncomfortable or you want to change, feel free to modify the code to fit your needs.

Back to the repo, you will find there are two files with the same name: `solution.cpp` and `solution.py`. These two files are the solution for the problem itself writen in C++ and Python programming language. You must complete the file `solution.cpp` or you can say that your solution must be stayed in C++ programming language.

Next you may find these files:
- `info.json`
- `statement.md`
- `editorial.md`

These three files are supporting files in order for you to work on your problem. You can write the problem's statement in `statement.md` and problem's solutionin `editorial.md`. And the problem's infomation will be store in `info.json` file. These files will play an important role for my upcoming project. You can remove it if you want.

And the best for last, these last few files and folder is the star of the show:
- `main.cpp`
- `setup.cpp`
- `/libraries`

The main driver for this setup is the file `main.cpp`. But first let me talk about `setup.cpp`. This file will contains your code which will be used repeatedly many time in order to create a testcase for your problem. You con write the problem's solution in here but that make no sense to me. More in depth explanation an how the setup work will be describe down below.

The folder `/libraries` contains a few libraries writen by me for generating random input for the problem then with the help of the solution, the output of the problem will be created. In the future there will be more libraries for user to create more interesting problems.

In the end, you only compile and run the driver code for this setup - `main.cpp`. Then a file called `testcases.zip` will be appeared and you can preview the testcase in file `testcase.txt`.

## How thing work?

Let take a simple example!

> Let $a$ and $b$ are integers in the range: $[1, 100000]$. Print the sum of those two numbers. The first $25\%$ of the testcase guarantee that the value's range of those two integers is under $100$.

Okay! A simple problem. Let start making the solution for the problem it!

***Content in file `solution.cpp`***
```c++
#include <bits/std++.h>

using namespace std;

int main() {
    int a, b;
    cin >> a >> b;
    cout << a + b << endl;
    return 0;
}
```

***Content in file `solution.py`***
```py
a, b = list(map(int, input().split(' ')))
print(a + b)
```

***Content in file `setup.cpp`***
```c++
#ifndef CREATE_TESTCASES
#define CREATE_TESTCASES

#include <bits/stdc++.h>
#include "libraries/GeneratingMethods.h"
#include "libraries/SideFunctions.h"

using namespace std;

void makeInput(const int testNumber, ofstream& cout) {
    ClosedSet value_range(1, 100);

    if (testNumber > 10)
        value_range = ClosedSet(100, 100000);

    int a = randInt(value_range);
    int b = randInt(value_range);

    cout << a << " " << b << endl;
    return;
}

void makeOutput(ifstream& cin, ofstream& cout) {
    int a, b;
    cin >> a >> b;
    cout << a + b << endl;
    return;
}

#endif
```

Finish getting those three files look similar to that, you can start to compile and run the file `main.cpp`. Then you will get the result as I said before.

***Explanation:***

- Firstly, let's talk about the solution. Straightforwardly, the solution is as simple as it can get. You may find that the code in the function `makeOutput()` in file `setup.cpp` is similar to the solution of the problem.
    - Because the output of the problem will be generated by taking a randomly generated input by the `makeInput()` function. Then the solution take the input and return the output respectively.
    - With those problems have multiple solution. You will need a checker which will check the output of the submission. In the upcomming update of this project I'll try to add some new feature related to this problem.

- Secondly, you'll have to compile and run the `main.cpp` file. This will repeatedly generate the input and output, together these two will create a testcase. By default, there will be $40$ testcases, each testcases is numbered from $1$ to $40$. Therefore input and output of each testcase is stored in `i.in` and `i.out` which $i$ is the number of the testcase.
- Lastly, you'll have to check the problem's testcases. You can unzip the file `testcases.zip` and check each files or preview in the file `testcases.txt`. Also during the process, you can watch the terminal or any command line, the code did print out all the testcases as the testcases are made.
